---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: IntelliJ and Coding Standards for Project Management
date: 2017-02-09
labels:
  - ESLint
  - IntelliJ
  - Coding Standards
  - Vanilla Javascript
---

## IntelliJ
As I came from a background in creating software programs without the use IDE's, using IntelliJ was a very interesting concept. Initially, I was not excited to use an IDE, as I felt this takes away from truly understanding how to serve a web application to the browser. But, once I looked at all the items that can be used in the IDE, I was extremely excited. I love using databases, Node.js, learning different languages, etc. in my projects and seeing all the options available in IntelliJ set that excitement on fire! Also, I have not worked with Meteor before, so I'm really excited to be able to easily create projects using IntelliJ. Honestly, I believe if you really love programming, you would embrace all the varieties of it. 

## ESLint
I came from a background that focuses on teaching and solving complex situations using vanilla JavaScript, so both ECMA 6 and ESLint were a different realm of understanding for me. I love it! It reminds me of my love for classic novels with my want to further my knowledge of the English language. It would be silly to not have a want to master ECMA 6, so I see the requirement of getting a "green checkmark" as a way to challenge myself. As software development is rapidly evolving, so must I when learning the new ways to attain optimal performance.

## Coding Standards
This all boils down to conforming to a new coding standard. ECMA 5 and ECMA 6 are very different from one another, but if I want to work with my fellow classmates on a project and they were trained in ECMA 6, I need to become trained like them. The learning curve for ECMA 6 would be very steep for me if there were no documentation on what the standard is. Coding standards do help a programmer learn a programming language because they are exposed to the ability to create wide-scale, functional programs. 