---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: My First Meteor Shower
date: 2017-03-23
labels:
  - Meteor
  - Learning Curve
  - React
---

## Before Using Meteor
For as long as I could remember, students would tell me how they were skilled in Web Development though the use of Meteor. I was intimidated as I felt that I would never be as skilled as these students who knew how to manipulate Meteor to create such complex, unique projects. The IDE that these students would use looked confusing enough! I knew that I had a lot to learn when I entered the class.

## Similarities with Other Frameworks
In my time during the Web Development bootcamp, DevLeague, my team for the our final projects integrated the React framework. This framework was very confusing to look use as it was confusing to have the code broken up in many different areas. The idea of components was very hard for me to piece together. When I left the program, I was happy that I left that framework behind. What I didn't realize was how widespead the idea of components actually was in other frameworks. I was horrified when I saw it again in Meteor.

## Success on The Outside, Confusion on the Inside
In class, we had weekly exercises demonstrating our knowledge of Meteor. Although I would always be the first student to complete these exercises, I felt that I didn't understand Meteor enough. I was not satisfied with the amount of knowledge that I gained from utilizing this material. I don't have the same spark of glee, interest, and creativity as I do when working with other material. This frustrates me, as I want to have a completely fleshed out product for my groups final project. I want an impressive project, not a passing presentation and I feel that I do not know enough to accomplish exactly what I want. 

## What I will do
We have a wonderful teaching assistant for the class and I plan on meeting with her often as I can this remaining month, so I can ensure I will give my teammates an impressive project on their resume.